In this video I'm going to show you how to use polygons to create patches and python.
So quite a lot of peas.
Quite a bit of alliteration with peas in this lecture.
So what is the goal here.
What's the big idea.
The big idea the big picture is to draw some object on the graph.
That's not necessarily a line and the way that we do that is by generating a polygon.
So let's say for example you want to draw a triangle on this graph here.
So the way that that works in Python is you specify some points and for a triangle we need a minimum
of three points and then basically you input these three points into a function called polygon which
then gets input into a method called Ad patch.
I will show you all the details in a moment but the idea is that you generate these three points and
python will draw a patch that goes across all of these points.
And in this case of course that is a triangle.
So three points will create a triangle.
Four points can create a rectangle or a square and you can have any arbitrary number of points to create
any kind of Polygon you want.
So just to make this a little bit more concrete.
The points that are specified here come in x y axis pairs.
So this point here would be 1 1 this point here would be 1 4.
That's this point here.
And then this point here is for 1 4 comma 1.
Okay.
And with that as an introduction.
Let me now switch to Python and show you how this gets implemented mechanistic CLI.
We are going to need the map plot lib.
So Matt.
Plot lib dot pie plot and I'll import that as BLT because that's what everyone else does.
We are going to use the NUM pi module so import that as N P also because that's how everyone else refers
to the NUM pi module.
And finally we are going to need a special function called polygon and that's going to be in the matte
plot lib dot patches module import Paul the gun.
So we don't actually need the entire Matlab lib dot patches module we only need the function polygon.
So I'm just importing that actually this was safe from.
So from this module we import just the function polygon there is a very specific way that the points
have to be specified for creating or for specifying the polygon.
So we are going to use num pi dot array and then inside the array there is going to be square brackets
like this and then inside the square brackets there's going to be another set of square brackets.
And the idea is that in the innermost square brackets these are going to be used for each individual
X Y coordinate and so in this case we're going to specify three to get a triangle.
So this looks a little bit initially confusing because there's a lot of square brackets going on.
We have this in p dot array function that's basically necessary to get the set of points into the format
that the function polygon expects.
And I'm going to walk you through this over the next minute or so.
So let's see I'm going to create a triangle.
I'll specify the points to be 1 1 and then 2 3 and then the other point is going to be 3 comma 1.
So let me show you what this variable Y looks like.
So this turns out to be a matrix.
It's a three by two matrix and this is the format that we always need to use for the function polygon
which I'm going to show you in a moment.
So the input into the polygon function always needs to be some number of points so each row is a point
and then the columns correspond to the X locations and the y locations.
All right.
So then I'm going to generate an object called P and it's going to be a poly gun and then we just input
the matrix of points that we generated here.
So polygon y and now to add this to a figure it's not quite as simple as saying you know appeal to you
dot plot P It would be you know pretty convenient if it could be that simple but it's slightly different
where you're going to use a slightly different formulation here.
So I'm going to write P L T dot subplots and then request to outputs from this subplots function the
figure which we're not actually going to use and the Axis within the figure.
And this is actually what we are going to use.
So we write X dot add underscore patch and then the patch object or the polygon object which is p in
this case.
Oh right.
And then I write P L to you that show and here is our Oh I was hoping there would be a beautiful triangle
here.
What is going on.
We don't see any python errors.
There's no error messages here.
But if you look at this plot closely you can see that the boundaries of this plot go from 0 to 1.
And on the y axis 0 to 1.
But all of these points that I've specified here are actually larger or one or larger.
So in fact this polygon is kind of off the screen it's being plotted over here outside of this axis.
So we need to explicitly tell Python to adjust the x and y axes.
So I will write X dot set y limb to go from 0 to 4 and then X starts at X limb to go also from 0 to
4 and great.
Now we see our happy little triangle and you can also see these three points here.
So this is the point.
1 1 this point appear is 2 3.
That's this middle point here.
And then appear we have 3 1 so that's 3 and then 1 over here.
So this triangle is blue.
I'm going to change the color of the triangle by adding another input to the polygon function and it's
going to be face.
Color equals How about M for magenta.
Okay.
But this is this is like a little bit intense.
It's a little bit bright but I'm going to do is make this partially transparent by using the alpha keyword.
So Alpha refers to the transparency of this object and it varies between 0 and 1 where one is totally
opaque which in this case actually means nothing zero means totally transparent.
And now it looks like the triangle disappeared.
In fact the triangle is there technically but it is set to be 100 percent transparent.
So maybe we tried something like point three.
So now this is 30 percent transparent.
I should say 30 percent opaque.
All right.
So that is one polygon if you want to add another polygon you do basically the same thing.
You just create another polygon object and add that additional patch as well.
So for example let's see.
I will copy and paste and in the interests of not overriding anything I'm going to make this Y 1 and
P1 and then change this to y one as well.
Okay.
So let's see.
I want to create another triangle on top of this triangle.
So I'm going to make that start at 2 2 and it's going to go 2.5 and then 4 and then the last point is
going to be three point five comma one and let's make this a black triangle.
It's still gonna be a bit transparent.
Right.
Of course nothing happened because I didn't actually draw this polygon.
So let's see I will copy and paste and now I will add patch p. 1.
All right.
There you go.
But maybe black doesn't look so good.
What if we change it to about blue.
Okay.
That looks pretty nice.
That's actually even a little bit purplish now there's many many options that you can add inside here
I'm going to show you another one which is the property called Edge color so the edge color is this
border around here.
So I specify this to be k which stands for black.
And notice that there is a border around here.
Now you might think that this border isn't really black.
It's more like a grayish color.
And that's because of the Alpha transparency here.
So this actually is a black edge but it's 30 percent opaque.
So if I get rid of this alpha then you'll see that it really is black.
Maybe I'll even set the face color to be white.
So it's a little bit even clear that it's a really a black border
the exercise for this video is to create this object to make a figure that looks like this.
I call this the hobbits house.
If you think that this doesn't really look like a hobbits house because there should be plants and maybe
a big round door that's open sideways and you know just have some imagination here.
I'm going to think of this as a hobbit house.
So what you want to do is implement this function so F of X equals minus X squared and you can see that
that's this function here.
This is like a parabola here.
So this line here corresponds to minus X squared.
And that defines the boundary for this patch.
So rather than specifying all of these points individually manually by writing them in you can specify
the points on this patch to be the output of the function minus X squared between minus two and plus
two.
So this is one patch object and then this door here is a second patch object.
All right.
So this looks like a pretty simple geometric figure but it's actually a little bit tricky to get it
to work with patches and polygons.
Now I'm about to give you a hint.
If you're stuck.
So if you don't want a hint if you just want to get started.
Now is your last opportunity to pause the video switch to Python and see if you can reproduce this figure.
And if you want a hint The hint is this you use this num pi function called end p v stack that stands
for vertical stack and the DOT T is for an operation called the transpose.
I'm going to talk more about transposing later in the course in the section on linear algebra.
But this is a function that you can use that will help you get this polygon object to work.
All right.
So now switch to Python and now I am going to switch to Python and show you how I came up with this
graph so let's start with a fresh sell down here.
So I'm going to say X equals linearly spaced numbers between minus two and plus two.
And let's go for one hundred and one elements in between these two.
So then I define the function that's minus X squared.
And now here is I think probably the hardest part of this exercise is getting the the points to two
works.
I'm going to call this PNC.
These are all the points and actually you don't maybe before I do this I'm going to draw what this function
looks like.
So people teed up blot X comma F. and then plot that show.
Okay.
So here you see what this function looks like.
So my strategy here is going to be to specify all of these points for the y axis locations and then
these are the x axis locations.
So this is going to be X and this is going to be y for the plots.
And now the trick is figuring out how to get x and f into a one hundred and one by two matrix.
So this has to be one hundred and one rows and two columns.
So the way that I'm going to do that is by saying num pi v stack that's for vertical stacking.
And then we stack x and f and then we need to.
Well let me actually show you what this looks like.
So print P.A. Yes so you can see this is one long row and then this is another long row that starts
here.
Now I can use a function there's a there's a function called num pie shape which tells you the size
of a variable.
So this is to buy 101.
But remember that the polygon function once the number of rows to correspond to the number of points
and then the number of columns to correspond to the x and y values.
So in fact this is just backwards.
We just need to transpose this or flip the rows into columns and that's what this dot t does.
It basically gives us a total matrix.
So now we have that and now I can create the polygon poly gone object and that's going to be with points.
And this is going to be green and let's make the edge color be black.
Okay.
And now I just need to add this polygon as a patch to the axis.
So following the code that I showed you previously would be fig comma X equals BLT.
So plots and then X equals or start at X dot add patch P.
Okay let's see how this is looking.
All right.
This is not just g.
This has to say face color equals G.
All right.
So this is a little too intensely green.
I want this to be a little bit of a lighter green color so I'm going to say alpha equals point two.
That was the value that I used in the graph that I showed in the slides.
Okay.
This is looking better and now that the issue with this edge color here is I want there to be a thick
black line that goes all the way around this hobbits house.
But you can see that the edge color here I specify it to be black.
But here it's very very light gray.
And that's because of this alpha.
So in fact I'm just going to leave out the edge on the patch.
So this patch is not going to have any edge color at all.
And instead the plot of the function is going to be black.
And I think this does a nicer job.
This makes it look nicer.
And now we need another line that goes here.
So that's just a normal line.
So that's going to be the x values are gonna go from minus two to plus two so minus two to plus two.
And it's actually we don't need this X here just minus two to plus two is good.
And then on the y axis it always stays at minus four.
So this goes minus four two plus four.
And of course this is also going to be a black line.
And what did I do wrong.
Oh right.
This should be minus 40 minus four.
My apologies.
OK.
So this is the house.
But now our friendly little hobbit is trapped inside of the house he can't get out.
So we need to create another patch.
And that's going to be the door.
So let's see I'll say this is why.
What maybe I'll just call his wife.
I have a variable Wyatt so num pi dot array and now this is going to be specifying just some number
of points and to create a rectangle here we need to specify four points so let's see one two three four.
Now the order here is not so important although you know if you specify this point and then this point
then this point in this point then you're actually creating an X instead of a box.
So I'm going to start by specifying this point here.
So this is minus point five.
Come on four.
So that's the first point here.
Minus point five comma minus four.
And then the next point is gonna be somewhere up here and let's say I think I did 2.5 in the original
one so the x coordinate is minus point five and the y coordinate is minus 2.5.
So minus 2.5.
And then we need this point over here which is point five.
So X equals plus point five and Y equals minus 2.5.
And finally we get down to this point which is the bottom right corner of the door.
And that is plus point five on the x axis and minus four on the y axis.
All right.
And then add this patch.
So that's going to be patch P1 right.
I have to make this polygon object so let's see P1 and then.
Now I call this variable Y and the face color here is going to be black with an alpha of the default
value which is one woops that's well I'll run this anyway that's gonna make a yellow door a little typo
here.
Okay so here we get a yellow door.
I want this door to be black.
There you go.
Actually there's one more thing I'm going to do which is to turn off the axis.
I wanted the access to be on in the picture in the slides so you can see what the coordinates are.
But I think it's gonna look a little bit more natural it looks a little more realistic if we turn the
Axis off.
There you go.
Here's our friendly little hobbit house so this video was a lot of fun for me to make.
I hope you enjoyed learning from it as well.
There's many many many things you can do with patches drawing patches on plots but I hope you feel confident
now with making basic patches and particular basic polygons and filling in objects based on function
values.